---
layout: post
title:  Quantum Computing Internships - 2024 Summer
date:  2023-10-05 00:00
description: Here are some exciting quantum computing internships currently available for students and recent graduates from Nvidia, Cisco, IBM and so on.
tags: intern
disqus_comments: true


authors:
  - name: Thinh Q. Dinh


---
## Nvidia

One of the most exciting internships related to quantum computing is the Quantum Computing Software Intern opportunity at Nvidia. This internship offers students the chance to work on cutting-edge projects and contribute to the development of software for quantum computers. With the growing demand for expertise in this field, this internship is an excellent way to gain practical experience and make valuable connections in the industry.

Quantum Computing Software Intern - Nvidia
https://nvidia.wd5.myworkdayjobs.com/en-US/NVIDIAExternalCareerSite/job/Quantum-Computing-Software-Intern_JR1973188

## Cisco

Another fascinating opportunity is the internship at Cisco, where students can work on developing secure quantum communication protocols. This internship is a great opportunity for students to learn about the challenges and opportunities of building a quantum internet and contribute to the development of cutting-edge technology.

Quantum Researcher PhD (Intern) - Cisco
https://jobs.cisco.com/jobs/ProjectDetail/Quantum-Researcher-PhD-Intern-United-States/1405086?source=LinkedIn

## ByteDance

Bytedance, the Chinese multinational technology andEntertainment company, Incredible opportunities for interns to work on developing quantum chemistry software and explore the application of quantum computing in various fields.

Intern in Quantum Chemistry - ByteDance
https://jobs.bytedance.com/en/position/7270223451197540669/detail?spread=BSPP2KS

## Intel

At Intel, the Post Quantum Crypto Hardware Researcher Internship provides students with the chance to work on advanced research projects that are pushing the boundaries of quantum computing technology. With the increasing demand for secure communication protocols in the quantum era, this internship is an excellent way to gain practical experience in this field.

Post Quantum Crypto Hardware Researcher Intern - Intel
https://jobs.intel.com/en/job/-/-/599/55384436272

## IBM

IBM's Quantum Hardware Engineer Internship offers students the chance to work on cutting-edge projects revolving around the development of quantum hardware. This internship provides students with exposure to real-world applications of quantum computing and the opportunity to make valuable connections in the industry.

Quantum Hardware Engineer - IBM
https://careers.ibm.com/job/19232081/2024-summer-intern-quantum-hardware-engineer-remote/?codes=SN_LinkedIn&Codes=SN_LinkedIn

## Xanadu

Xanadu, a startup in Canada, offers a residency program for students and recent graduates to work on advanced quantum computing research projects. The Xanadu residency program provides individuals with an opportunity to work with some of the brightest minds in the field and makes significant contributions to the development of quantum computing technology.

Xanadu Residency Program
https://xanadu.applytojob.com/apply/CPPWQlGLI3/Xanadu-Residency-Program-2024

## J.P.Morgan

Finally, the JP Morgan Intern Program offers individuals the chance to work on cutting-edge research projects and contribute to the development of the next generation of technology. With the growing demand for expertise in quantum computing, this internship is an excellent way to gain practical experience and make valuable connections in the industry.

J.P.Morgan Intern Program
https://careers.jpmorgan.com/global/en/students/programs/research-technologies-summer-associate-program